The GraphiQL Working Group will begin meeting to plan work for GraphiQL. The meetings will be modelled on the GraphQL Working Group meetings, but will be less formalized as this is not a spec body, just a working group for re-building a contributor community, prioritizing every few weeks and deciding on what new features we want in GraphiQL.

- **Video Conference Link:** https://zoom.us/j/428907595
- **Live Notes:**
- **Date & Time:** May 14th 2019 16:00 - 19:00 UTC
- **NOTE:** Meeting date and time may change up to a week before the meeting. Please check the agenda the week of the meeting to confirm.

## Attendees

- Orta (@orta) - ex-Artsy
- Lee Byron (@leebyron) - GraphQL Foundation, Robin Hood
- Benjie Gillam (@benjie) - PostGraphile
- Sean Grove (@sgrove) - OneGraph Explorer
- Jake Dawkins (@JakeDawkins) - Apollo
- Trevor Scheer (@trevor-scheer) - Apollo
- Tanay Pratap (@tanaypratap) - Microsoft
- Alexey Rodionov (@FluorescentHallucinogen) - GdeZerno
- Samuel (@imolorhe) - Altair Client
- Rohit Ravikoti (@rohit-ravikoti) - Novvum
- Hyo Jeong (@asiandrummer) - Facebook
- Rikki Schulte (@acao) - Independent Maintainer

## Agenda

- Who has the npm keys? [#818](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql/issues/818)
- How will we organize/delegate work for GraphiQL WG
- Who will review work for new contributors to GraphiQL
- Should codemirror-graphql work be inclusive in the GraphiQL WG
- Should we update Contributing.md and how?
- (potentially) triage existing issues, PRs
- (potentially) decide on what needs to be accomplished before beginning new UI design
- (from Hyo) Transferring ownership to GraphQL foundation
