working-group/agendas/2025/06-Jun/10-graphiql-wg-june-2025.md, before:

| This is an open meeting: To attend, edit and PR this file. (Edit: ✎ above, or press "e") |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

# GraphiQL WG — June 2025

To read about the purpose of this subcommittee, please see [the README](../../README.md).


- **Date & Time**: [June 10, 2025, 4:00 – 5:00 PM UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20250610T160000&p1=224&p2=24&p3=179&p4=136&p5=37&p6=239&p7=101&p8=152)
  - View the [calendar][], or subscribe ([Google Calendar][], [ical file][]).
  - _Please Note:_ The date or time may change. Please check this agenda the
    week of the meeting to confirm. While we try to keep all calendars accurate,
    this agenda document is the source of truth.
- **Video Conference Link**: https://zoom.us/j/760146252
  - _Password:_ graphiql
- **Live Notes**: [Live Notes][]

[calendar]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_ik79t9uuj2p32i3r203dgv5mo8%40group.calendar.google.com
[google calendar]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar?cid=bGludXhmb3VuZGF0aW9uLm9yZ19pazc5dDl1dWoycDMyaTNyMjAzZGd2NW1vOEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t
[ical file]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/linuxfoundation.org_ik79t9uuj2p32i3r203dgv5mo8%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics
[live notes]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AjbUDhfQV2TXn13RZqrmL7PfETTslzkbVZGtNl_SLcU/edit?usp=sharing

## Attendees

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Name                       | GitHub               | Organization       | Location                 |
| :------------------------- | :------------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------- |


## Agenda

1. Agree to Membership Agreement, Participation & Contribution Guidelines and Code of Conduct (1m, Host)
   - [Specification Membership Agreement](https://github.com/graphql/foundation)
   - [Participation Guidelines](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg#participation-guidelines)
   - [Contribution Guide](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
   - [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/graphql/foundation/blob/master/CODE-OF-CONDUCT.md)
1. Introduction of attendees (5m, Host)
1. Determine volunteers for note taking (1m, Host)
1. Review agenda (2m, Host)
1. Review previous meeting's action items (5m, Host)
   - [Ready for review](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Ready+for+review+%F0%9F%99%8C%22+sort%3Aupdated-desc)
   - [All open action items (by last update)](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Action+item+%3Aclapper%3A%22+sort%3Aupdated-desc)

Commit message:

Upgrade wgutils; note AI summary tools (#3878)
* Upgrade wgutils; note AI summary tools

* Don't spell-check the working group

working-group/agendas/2025/06-Jun/10-graphiql-wg-june-2025.md, after:

| This is an open meeting: To attend, edit and PR this file. (Edit: ✎ above, or press "e") |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

# GraphiQL WG — June 2025

To read about the purpose of this subcommittee, please see [the README](../../README.md).


- **Date & Time**: [June 10, 2025, 4:00 – 5:00 PM UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20250610T160000&p1=224&p2=24&p3=179&p4=136&p5=37&p6=239&p7=101&p8=152)
  - View the [calendar][], or subscribe ([Google Calendar][], [ical file][]).
  - _Please Note:_ The date or time may change. Please check this agenda the
    week of the meeting to confirm. While we try to keep all calendars accurate,
    this agenda document is the source of truth.
- **Video Conference Link**: https://zoom.us/j/760146252
  - _Password:_ graphiql
- **Live Notes**: [Live Notes][]

[calendar]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_ik79t9uuj2p32i3r203dgv5mo8%40group.calendar.google.com
[google calendar]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar?cid=bGludXhmb3VuZGF0aW9uLm9yZ19pazc5dDl1dWoycDMyaTNyMjAzZGd2NW1vOEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t
[ical file]: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/linuxfoundation.org_ik79t9uuj2p32i3r203dgv5mo8%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics
[live notes]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AjbUDhfQV2TXn13RZqrmL7PfETTslzkbVZGtNl_SLcU/edit?usp=sharing

## Attendees

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Name                       | GitHub               | Organization       | Location                 |
| :------------------------- | :------------------- | :----------------- | :----------------------- |


## Agenda

1. Agree to Membership Agreement, Participation & Contribution Guidelines and Code of Conduct (1m, Host)
   - [Specification Membership Agreement](https://github.com/graphql/foundation)
   - [Participation Guidelines](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg#participation-guidelines)
   - [Contribution Guide](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
   - [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/graphql/foundation/blob/master/CODE-OF-CONDUCT.md)
   - Meetings are [published to YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@GraphQLFoundation/videos) and we may use LLM/AI summary tools
1. Introduction of attendees (5m, Host)
1. Determine volunteers for note taking (1m, Host)
1. Review agenda (2m, Host)
1. Check for [ready for review agenda items](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Ready+for+review+%F0%9F%99%8C%22+sort%3Aupdated-desc) (5m, Host)
