DEVELOPMENT.md, before:

### Getting Started

Please note that we require a signed GraphQL Specification Membership agreement before landing a contribution. This is checked automatically when you open a PR. If you have not signed the membership agreement (it's free), you will be prompted by the EasyCLA bot. For more details, please see the [GraphQL WG repo](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg/tree/main/membership).

1. First, you will need to have the latest git, yarn 1.16 & node 12 or greater installed. OSX, Windows and Linux should all be supported as build environments.

**None of these commands will work with `npm`. Please use `yarn` to develop with graphql**.

1. Fork this repo by using the "Fork" button in the upper-right

2. Check out your fork

   ```sh
   git clone git@github.com:yournamehere/graphiql.git
   ```

3. Install or Update all dependencies

   ```sh
   yarn
   ```

4. Build all interdependencies so the project you are working on can resolve other packages

   first you'll need

   ```sh
   yarn run build
   ```

   you can also use

   ```sh
   yarn run build:watch
   ```

   if you are focused on GraphiQL development, you can run

   ```sh
   yarn run start-graphiql
   ```

5. Get coding! If you've added code, add tests. If you've changed APIs, update
   any relevant documentation or tests. Ensure your work is committed within a
   feature branch.

6. Ensure all tests pass, and build everything

   ```sh
   yarn test
   ```

### Fix CI issues with linting

if you have prettier or eslint --fix able issues you see in CI, use yarn format:

`yarn format`

if you see typescript build issues, do a `yarn build` locally and make sure the whole project references tree builds. changing interfaces can end up breaking their implementations.

### Run tests for GraphiQL:

- `yarn test graphiql` will run all tests for graphiql. you can also run tests from a workspace, but most tooling is at the root.
- `yarn test --watch` will run jest with --watch
- `yarn e2e` at the root will run the end to end suite
- `yarn start-monaco` will launch webpack dev server for the monaco editor example with github API from the root. this is the fastest way to test changes to `graphql-language-service-interface`, parser, etc.

if you want these commands to watch for changes to dependent packages in the repo, then `yarn build --watch` is what you want to run alongside either of these.

### Developing for GraphiQL

If you want to develop just for graphiql, you don't even need to execute commands from the package subdirectory at `packages/graphiql`.

First, you'll need to `yarn build` all the packages from the root.

Then, you can run these commands:

- `yarn start-graphiql` will launch webpack dev server for graphiql from the root

### Developing Monaco GraphQL

Follow the [`monaco-graphql` example readme](examples/monaco-graphql-webpack-example/README.md) to set it up, and then you can run `yarn start-monaco` from anywhere in the repository!

Commit message:

feat: Globally replace yarn with pnpm

DEVELOPMENT.md, after:

### Getting Started

Please note that we require a signed GraphQL Specification Membership agreement before landing a contribution. This is checked automatically when you open a PR. If you have not signed the membership agreement (it's free), you will be prompted by the EasyCLA bot. For more details, please see the [GraphQL WG repo](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg/tree/main/membership).

1. First, you will need to have the latest git, pnpm 6.32.7 & node 12 or greater installed. OSX, Windows and Linux should all be supported as build environments.

**None of these commands will work with `npm`. Please use `pnpm` to develop with graphql**.

1. Fork this repo by using the "Fork" button in the upper-right

2. Check out your fork

   ```sh
   git clone git@github.com:yournamehere/graphiql.git
   ```

3. Install or Update all dependencies

   ```sh
   pnpm
   ```

4. Build all interdependencies so the project you are working on can resolve other packages

   first you'll need

   ```sh
   pnpm build
   ```

   you can also use

   ```sh
   pnpm build:watch
   ```

   if you are focused on GraphiQL development, you can run

   ```sh
   pnpm start-graphiql
   ```

5. Get coding! If you've added code, add tests. If you've changed APIs, update
   any relevant documentation or tests. Ensure your work is committed within a
   feature branch.

6. Ensure all tests pass, and build everything

   ```sh
   pnpm test
   ```

### Fix CI issues with linting

if you have prettier or eslint --fix able issues you see in CI, use pnpm format:

`pnpm format`

if you see typescript build issues, do a `pnpm build` locally and make sure the whole project references tree builds. changing interfaces can end up breaking their implementations.

### Run tests for GraphiQL:

- `pnpm test graphiql` will run all tests for graphiql. you can also run tests from a workspace, but most tooling is at the root.
- `pnpm test --watch` will run jest with --watch
- `pnpm e2e` at the root will run the end to end suite
- `pnpm start-monaco` will launch webpack dev server for the monaco editor example with github API from the root. this is the fastest way to test changes to `graphql-language-service-interface`, parser, etc.

if you want these commands to watch for changes to dependent packages in the repo, then `pnpm build --watch` is what you want to run alongside either of these.

### Developing for GraphiQL

If you want to develop just for graphiql, you don't even need to execute commands from the package subdirectory at `packages/graphiql`.

First, you'll need to `pnpm build` all the packages from the root.

Then, you can run these commands:

- `pnpm start-graphiql` will launch webpack dev server for graphiql from the root

### Developing Monaco GraphQL

Follow the [`monaco-graphql` example readme](examples/monaco-graphql-webpack-example/README.md) to set it up, and then you can run `pnpm start-monaco` from anywhere in the repository!
