packages/graphql-language-service-server/README.md, before:

# graphql-language-service-server

[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/graphql-language-service-server.svg?style=flat-square)](https://npmjs.com/graphql-language-service-server)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/graphql-language-service-server?label=npm%20downloads)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/graphql-language-service-server.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

[Changelog](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql/blob/main/packages/graphql-language-service-server/CHANGELOG.md)
|
[API Docs](https://graphiql-test.netlify.app/typedoc/modules/graphql_language_service_server.html)
| [Discord Channel](https://discord.gg/PXaRYrpgK4)

Server process backing the
[GraphQL Language Service](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql/tree/main/packages/graphql-language-service).

GraphQL Language Service Server provides an interface for building GraphQL
language services for IDEs.

Partial support for
[Microsoft's Language Server Protocol](https://github.com/Microsoft/language-server-protocol)
is in place, with more to come in the future.

Supported features include:

- Diagnostics (GraphQL syntax linting/validations) (**spec-compliant**)
- Autocomplete suggestions (**spec-compliant**)
- Hyperlink to fragment definitions and named types (type, input, enum)
  definitions (**spec-compliant**)
- Outline view support for queries
- Support for `gql` `graphql` and other template tags inside javascript,
  typescript, jsx, ts, vue and svelte files, and an interface to allow custom
  parsing of all files.

## Installation and Usage

### Dependencies

An LSP compatible client with its own file watcher, that sends watch
notifications to the server.

**DROPPED**: GraphQL Language Service no longer depends on
[Watchman](https://facebook.github.io/watchman/)

### Installation

```bash
npm install --save graphql-language-service-server
# or
yarn add graphql-language-service-server
```

We also provide a CLI interface to this server, see
[`graphql-language-service-cli`](../graphql-language-service-cli/)

### Usage

Initialize the GraphQL Language Server with the `startServer` function:

```ts
import { startServer } from 'graphql-language-service-server';

await startServer({
  method: 'node',
});
```

If you are developing a service or extension, this is the LSP language server
you want to run.

When developing vscode extensions, just the above is enough to get started for
your extension's `ServerOptions.run.module`, for example.

`startServer` function takes the following parameters:

| Parameter      | Required                                             | Description                                                                       |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| port           | `true` when method is `socket`, `false` otherwise    | port for the LSP server to run on                                                 |
| method         | `false`                                              | `socket`, `streams`, or `node` (ipc)                                              |
| config         | `false`                                              | custom `graphql-config` instance from `loadConfig` (see example above)            |
| configDir      | `false`                                              | the directory where graphql-config is found                                       |
| extensions     | `false`                                              | array of functions to transform the graphql-config and add extensions dynamically |
| parser         | `false`                                              | Customize _all_ file parsing by overriding the default `parseDocument` function   |
| fileExtensions | `false`. defaults to `['.js', '.ts', '.tsx, '.jsx']` | Customize file extensions used by the default LSP parser                          |

### GraphQL configuration file

You _must_ provide a graphql config file

Check out [graphql-config](https://graphql-config.com/introduction) to learn the
many ways you can define your graphql config

#### `.graphqlrc` or `.graphqlrc.yml/yaml` or `graphql.config.yml`

```yaml
schema: 'packages/api/src/schema.graphql'
documents: 'packages/app/src/components/**/*.{tsx,ts}'
extensions:
  endpoints:
    example:
      url: 'http://localhost:8000'
  customExtension:
    foo: true
```

#### `.graphqlrc` or `.graphqlrc.json` or `graphql.config.json`

```json
{
  "schema": "https://localhost:8000"
}
```

#### `graphql.config.js` or `.graphqlrc.js`

```js
module.exports = { schema: 'https://localhost:8000' };
```

#### custom `startServer`

use graphql config [`loadConfig`](https://graphql-config.com/load-config) for
further customization:

```ts
import { loadConfig } from 'graphql-config'; // 3.0.0 or later!

// with required params
const config = await loadConfig();

await startServer({
  method: 'node',
  // or instead of configName, an exact path (relative from rootDir or absolute)

  // deprecated for: loadConfigOptions.rootDir. root directory for graphql config file(s), or for relative resolution for exact `filePath`. default process.cwd()
  // configDir: '',
  loadConfigOptions: {
    // any of the options for graphql-config@3 `loadConfig()`
    schema: await config.getSchema(),
    // rootDir is same as `configDir` before, the path where the graphql config file would be found by cosmic-config
    rootDir: 'config/',
    // or - the relative or absolute path to your file
    filePath: 'exact/path/to/config.js', // (also supports yml, json, ts, toml)
    // myPlatform.config.js/json/yaml works now!
    configName: 'myPlatform',
  },
});
```

<span id="custom-graphql-config" />

#### Custom `graphql-config` features

The graphql-config features we support are:

```js
module.exports = {
  extensions: {
    // add customDirectives (legacy). you can now provide multiple schema pointers to config.schema/project.schema, including inline strings. same with scalars or any SDL type that you'd like to append to the schema
    customDirectives: ['@myExampleDirective'],
    // a function that returns an array of validation rules, ala https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/tree/main/src/validation/rules
    // note that this file will be loaded by the vscode runtime, so the node version and other factors will come into play
    customValidationRules: require('./config/customValidationRules'),
    languageService: {
      // this is enabled by default if non-local files are specified in the project `schema`
      // NOTE: this will disable all definition lookup for local SDL files
      cacheSchemaFileForLookup: true,
      // undefined by default which has the same effect as `true`, set to `false` if you are already using // `graphql-eslint` or some other tool for validating graphql in your IDE. Must be explicitly `false` to disable this feature, not just "falsy"
      enableValidation: true,
      // (experimental) enhanced auto expansion of graphql leaf fields and arguments
      fillLeafsOnComplete: true,
      // instead of jumping directly to the SDL file, you can override definition peek/jump results to point to different files or locations
      // (for example, source files for your schema in any language!)
      // based on Relay vscode's pathToLocateCommand
      // see LocateCommand type!
      locateCommand(projectName, typePath, info) {
        // pass more info, such as GraphQLType with the ast node. info.project is also available if you need it
        const { path, range } = ourLookupUtility(
          projectName,
          typePath,
          info.type.node,
        );
        return { uri: path, range }; // range.start.line/range.end.character/etc, base 1
        // you can also return relay LSP style
        // return '/path/to/file.py:20:23'; // (range: 20:1 )
        // return '/path/to/file.py'; // (range: 1:1 1:1)
      },
    },
  },
};
```

or for multi-project workspaces:

```ts
// graphql.config.ts
export default {
  projects: {
    myProject: {
      schema: [
        // internally in `graphql-config`, an attempt will be made to combine these schemas into one in-memory schema to use for validation, lookup, etc
        'http://localhost:8080',
        './my-project/schema.graphql',
        './my-project/schema.ts',
        '@customDirective(arg: String!)',
        'scalar CustomScalar',
      ],
      // project specific defaults
      extensions: {
        languageService: {
          cacheSchemaFileForLookup: true,
          enableValidation: false,
        },
      },
    },
    anotherProject: {
      schema: {
        'http://localhost:8081': {
          customHeaders: { Authorization: 'Bearer example' },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  // global defaults for all projects
  extensions: {
    languageService: {
      cacheSchemaFileForLookup: false,
      enableValidation: true,
    },
  },
};
```

You can specify any of these settings globally as above, or per project. Read
the graphql-config docs to learn more about this!

For secrets (headers, urls, etc), you can import `dotenv()` and set a base path
as you wish in your `graphql-config` file to pre-load `process.env` variables.

### Troubleshooting notes

- you may need to manually restart the language server for some of these
  configurations to take effect
- graphql-config's multi-project support is not related to multi-root workspaces
  in vscode - in fact, each workspace can have multiple graphql config projects,
  which is what makes multi-root workspaces tricky to support. coming soon!

<span id="workspace-configuration" />

### Workspace Configuration

The LSP Server reads config by sending `workspace/configuration` method when it
initializes.

Note: We still do not support LSP multi-root workspaces but will tackle this
very soon!

Many LSP clients beyond vscode offer ways to set these configurations, such as
via `initializationOptions` in nvim.coc. The options are mostly designed to
configure graphql-config's load parameters, the only thing we can't configure
with graphql config. The final option can be set in `graphql-config` as well

| Parameter                                 | Default                                           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ----------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `graphql-config.load.baseDir`             | workspace root or process.cwd()                   | the path where graphql config looks for config files                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `graphql-config.load.filePath`            | `null`                                            | exact filepath of the config file.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `graphql-config.load.configName`          | `graphql`                                         | config name prefix instead of `graphql`                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `graphql-config.load.legacy`              | `true`                                            | backwards compatibility with `graphql-config@2`                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `graphql-config.dotEnvPath`               | `null`                                            | backwards compatibility with `graphql-config@2`                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `vscode-graphql.cacheSchemaFileForLookup` | `true` if `schema` contains non-sdl files or urls | generate an SDL file based on your graphql-config schema configuration for schema definition lookup and other features. enabled by default when your `schema` config are urls or introspection json, or if you have any non-local SDL files in `schema` |

all the `graphql-config.load.*` configuration values come from static
`loadConfig()` options in graphql config.

(more coming soon!)

### Architectural Overview

GraphQL Language Service currently communicates via Stream transport with the
IDE server. GraphQL server will receive/send RPC messages to perform language
service features, while caching the necessary GraphQL artifacts such as fragment
definitions, GraphQL schemas etc. More about the server interface and RPC
message format below.

The IDE server should launch a separate GraphQL server with its own child
process for each `.graphqlrc.yml` file the IDE finds (using the nearest ancestor
directory relative to the file currently being edited):

```
./application

  ./productA
    .graphqlrc.yml
    ProductAQuery.graphql
    ProductASchema.graphql

  ./productB
    .graphqlrc.yml
    ProductBQuery.graphql
    ProductBSchema.graphql
```

A separate GraphQL server should be instantiated for `ProductA` and `ProductB`,
each with its own `.graphqlrc.yml` file, as illustrated in the directory
structure above.

The IDE server should manage the lifecycle of the GraphQL server. Ideally, the
IDE server should spawn a child process for each of the GraphQL Language Service
processes necessary, and gracefully exit the processes as the IDE closes. In
case of errors or a sudden halt the GraphQL Language Service will close as the
stream from the IDE closes.

### Server Interface

GraphQL Language Server uses [JSON-RPC](http://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) to
communicate with the IDE servers. Microsoft's language server currently supports
two communication transports: Stream (stdio) and IPC. For IPC transport, the
reference guide to be used for development is
[the language server protocol](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specification)
documentation.

For each transport, there is a slight difference in JSON message format,
especially in how the methods to be invoked are defined - below are the
currently supported methods for each transport (will be updated as progress is
made):

|                      | Stream                       | IPC                                         |
| -------------------: | ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
|          Diagnostics | `getDiagnostics`             | `textDocument/publishDiagnostics`           |
|       Autocompletion | `getAutocompleteSuggestions` | `textDocument/completion`                   |
|              Outline | `getOutline`                 | `textDocument/outline`                      |
|     Document Symbols | `getDocumentSymbols`         | `textDocument/symbols`                      |
|    Workspace Symbols | `getWorkspaceSymbols`        | `workspace/symbols`                         |
|     Go-to definition | `getDefinition`              | `textDocument/definition`                   |
| Workspace Definition | `getWorkspaceDefinition`     | `workspace/definition`                      |
|          File Events | Not supported yet            | `didOpen/didClose/didSave/didChange` events |

Commit message:

configure more gh actions for node LTS (#3613)
* finish upgrading to node 18

* fix: node version

packages/graphql-language-service-server/README.md, after:

# graphql-language-service-server

[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/graphql-language-service-server.svg?style=flat-square)](https://npmjs.com/graphql-language-service-server)
![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/graphql-language-service-server?label=npm%20downloads)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/graphql-language-service-server.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

[Changelog](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql/blob/main/packages/graphql-language-service-server/CHANGELOG.md)
|
[API Docs](https://graphiql-test.netlify.app/typedoc/modules/graphql_language_service_server.html)
| [Discord Channel](https://discord.gg/PXaRYrpgK4)

Server process backing the
[GraphQL Language Service](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql/tree/main/packages/graphql-language-service).

GraphQL Language Service Server provides an interface for building GraphQL
language services for IDEs.

Partial support for
[Microsoft's Language Server Protocol](https://github.com/Microsoft/language-server-protocol)
is in place, with more to come in the future.

Supported features include:

- Diagnostics (GraphQL syntax linting/validations) (**spec-compliant**)
- Autocomplete suggestions (**spec-compliant**)
- Hyperlink to fragment definitions and named types (type, input, enum)
  definitions (**spec-compliant**)
- Outline view support for queries
- Support for `gql` `graphql` and other template tags inside javascript,
  typescript, jsx, ts, vue and svelte files, and an interface to allow custom
  parsing of all files.

## Installation and Usage

### Dependencies

- An LSP compatible client with its own file watcher, that sends watch
  notifications to the server, such as vscode, nvim, or sublime-lsp.
- Node.js `^18.18.0 || >=20.9.0` or later is required.
- (for now) a graphql config file is required

### Installation

```bash
npm install --save graphql-language-service-server
# or
yarn add graphql-language-service-server
```

We also provide a CLI interface to this server, see
[`graphql-language-service-cli`](../graphql-language-service-cli/)

### Usage

Initialize the GraphQL Language Server with the `startServer` function:

```ts
import { startServer } from 'graphql-language-service-server';

await startServer({
  method: 'node',
});
```

If you are developing a service or extension, this is the LSP language server
you want to run.

When developing vscode extensions, just the above is enough to get started for
your extension's `ServerOptions.run.module`, for example.

`startServer` function takes the following parameters:

| Parameter      | Required                                             | Description                                                                       |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| port           | `true` when method is `socket`, `false` otherwise    | port for the LSP server to run on                                                 |
| method         | `false`                                              | `socket`, `streams`, or `node` (ipc)                                              |
| config         | `false`                                              | custom `graphql-config` instance from `loadConfig` (see example above)            |
| configDir      | `false`                                              | the directory where graphql-config is found                                       |
| extensions     | `false`                                              | array of functions to transform the graphql-config and add extensions dynamically |
| parser         | `false`                                              | Customize _all_ file parsing by overriding the default `parseDocument` function   |
| fileExtensions | `false`. defaults to `['.js', '.ts', '.tsx, '.jsx']` | Customize file extensions used by the default LSP parser                          |

### GraphQL configuration file

You _must_ provide a graphql config file

Check out [graphql-config](https://graphql-config.com/introduction) to learn the
many ways you can define your graphql config

#### `.graphqlrc` or `.graphqlrc.yml/yaml` or `graphql.config.yml`

```yaml
schema: 'packages/api/src/schema.graphql'
documents: 'packages/app/src/components/**/*.{tsx,ts}'
extensions:
  endpoints:
    example:
      url: 'http://localhost:8000'
  customExtension:
    foo: true
```

#### `.graphqlrc` or `.graphqlrc.json` or `graphql.config.json`

```json
{
  "schema": "https://localhost:8000"
}
```

#### `graphql.config.js` or `.graphqlrc.js`

```js
module.exports = { schema: 'https://localhost:8000' };
```

#### custom `startServer`

use graphql config [`loadConfig`](https://graphql-config.com/load-config) for
further customization:

```ts
import { loadConfig } from 'graphql-config'; // 3.0.0 or later!

// with required params
const config = await loadConfig();

await startServer({
  method: 'node',
  // or instead of configName, an exact path (relative from rootDir or absolute)

  // deprecated for: loadConfigOptions.rootDir. root directory for graphql config file(s), or for relative resolution for exact `filePath`. default process.cwd()
  // configDir: '',
  loadConfigOptions: {
    // any of the options for graphql-config@3 `loadConfig()`
    schema: await config.getSchema(),
    // rootDir is same as `configDir` before, the path where the graphql config file would be found by cosmic-config
    rootDir: 'config/',
    // or - the relative or absolute path to your file
    filePath: 'exact/path/to/config.js', // (also supports yml, json, ts, toml)
    // myPlatform.config.js/json/yaml works now!
    configName: 'myPlatform',
  },
});
```

<span id="custom-graphql-config" />

#### Custom `graphql-config` features

The graphql-config features we support are:

```js
module.exports = {
  extensions: {
    // add customDirectives (legacy). you can now provide multiple schema pointers to config.schema/project.schema, including inline strings. same with scalars or any SDL type that you'd like to append to the schema
    customDirectives: ['@myExampleDirective'],
    // a function that returns an array of validation rules, ala https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/tree/main/src/validation/rules
    // note that this file will be loaded by the vscode runtime, so the node version and other factors will come into play
    customValidationRules: require('./config/customValidationRules'),
    languageService: {
      // this is enabled by default if non-local files are specified in the project `schema`
      // NOTE: this will disable all definition lookup for local SDL files
      cacheSchemaFileForLookup: true,
      // undefined by default which has the same effect as `true`, set to `false` if you are already using // `graphql-eslint` or some other tool for validating graphql in your IDE. Must be explicitly `false` to disable this feature, not just "falsy"
      enableValidation: true,
      // (experimental) enhanced auto expansion of graphql leaf fields and arguments
      fillLeafsOnComplete: true,
      // instead of jumping directly to the SDL file, you can override definition peek/jump results to point to different files or locations
      // (for example, source files for your schema in any language!)
      // based on Relay vscode's pathToLocateCommand
      // see LocateCommand type!
      locateCommand(projectName, typePath, info) {
        // pass more info, such as GraphQLType with the ast node. info.project is also available if you need it
        const { path, range } = ourLookupUtility(
          projectName,
          typePath,
          info.type.node,
        );
        return { uri: path, range }; // range.start.line/range.end.character/etc, base 1
        // you can also return relay LSP style
        // return '/path/to/file.py:20:23'; // (range: 20:1 )
        // return '/path/to/file.py'; // (range: 1:1 1:1)
      },
    },
  },
};
```

or for multi-project workspaces:

```ts
// graphql.config.ts
export default {
  projects: {
    myProject: {
      schema: [
        // internally in `graphql-config`, an attempt will be made to combine these schemas into one in-memory schema to use for validation, lookup, etc
        'http://localhost:8080',
        './my-project/schema.graphql',
        './my-project/schema.ts',
        '@customDirective(arg: String!)',
        'scalar CustomScalar',
      ],
      // project specific defaults
      extensions: {
        languageService: {
          cacheSchemaFileForLookup: true,
          enableValidation: false,
        },
      },
    },
    anotherProject: {
      schema: {
        'http://localhost:8081': {
          customHeaders: { Authorization: 'Bearer example' },
        },
      },
    },
  },
  // global defaults for all projects
  extensions: {
    languageService: {
      cacheSchemaFileForLookup: false,
      enableValidation: true,
    },
  },
};
```

You can specify any of these settings globally as above, or per project. Read
the graphql-config docs to learn more about this!

For secrets (headers, urls, etc), you can import `dotenv()` and set a base path
as you wish in your `graphql-config` file to pre-load `process.env` variables.

### Troubleshooting notes

- you may need to manually restart the language server for some of these
  configurations to take effect
- graphql-config's multi-project support is not related to multi-root workspaces
  in vscode - in fact, each workspace can have multiple graphql config projects,
  which is what makes multi-root workspaces tricky to support. coming soon!

<span id="workspace-configuration" />

### Workspace Configuration

The LSP Server reads config by sending `workspace/configuration` method when it
initializes.

Note: We still do not support LSP multi-root workspaces but will tackle this
very soon!

Many LSP clients beyond vscode offer ways to set these configurations, such as
via `initializationOptions` in nvim.coc. The options are mostly designed to
configure graphql-config's load parameters, the only thing we can't configure
with graphql config. The final option can be set in `graphql-config` as well

| Parameter                                 | Default                                           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ----------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `graphql-config.load.baseDir`             | workspace root or process.cwd()                   | the path where graphql config looks for config files                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `graphql-config.load.filePath`            | `null`                                            | exact filepath of the config file.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `graphql-config.load.configName`          | `graphql`                                         | config name prefix instead of `graphql`                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `graphql-config.load.legacy`              | `true`                                            | backwards compatibility with `graphql-config@2`                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `graphql-config.dotEnvPath`               | `null`                                            | backwards compatibility with `graphql-config@2`                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `vscode-graphql.cacheSchemaFileForLookup` | `true` if `schema` contains non-sdl files or urls | generate an SDL file based on your graphql-config schema configuration for schema definition lookup and other features. enabled by default when your `schema` config are urls or introspection json, or if you have any non-local SDL files in `schema` |

all the `graphql-config.load.*` configuration values come from static
`loadConfig()` options in graphql config.

(more coming soon!)

### Architectural Overview

GraphQL Language Service currently communicates via Stream transport with the
IDE server. GraphQL server will receive/send RPC messages to perform language
service features, while caching the necessary GraphQL artifacts such as fragment
definitions, GraphQL schemas etc. More about the server interface and RPC
message format below.

The IDE server should launch a separate GraphQL server with its own child
process for each `.graphqlrc.yml` file the IDE finds (using the nearest ancestor
directory relative to the file currently being edited):

```
./application

  ./productA
    .graphqlrc.yml
    ProductAQuery.graphql
    ProductASchema.graphql

  ./productB
    .graphqlrc.yml
    ProductBQuery.graphql
    ProductBSchema.graphql
```

A separate GraphQL server should be instantiated for `ProductA` and `ProductB`,
each with its own `.graphqlrc.yml` file, as illustrated in the directory
structure above.

The IDE server should manage the lifecycle of the GraphQL server. Ideally, the
IDE server should spawn a child process for each of the GraphQL Language Service
processes necessary, and gracefully exit the processes as the IDE closes. In
case of errors or a sudden halt the GraphQL Language Service will close as the
stream from the IDE closes.

### Server Interface

GraphQL Language Server uses [JSON-RPC](http://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) to
communicate with the IDE servers. Microsoft's language server currently supports
two communication transports: Stream (stdio) and IPC. For IPC transport, the
reference guide to be used for development is
[the language server protocol](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specification)
documentation.

For each transport, there is a slight difference in JSON message format,
especially in how the methods to be invoked are defined - below are the
currently supported methods for each transport (will be updated as progress is
made):

|                      | Stream                       | IPC                                         |
| -------------------: | ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
|          Diagnostics | `getDiagnostics`             | `textDocument/publishDiagnostics`           |
|       Autocompletion | `getAutocompleteSuggestions` | `textDocument/completion`                   |
|              Outline | `getOutline`                 | `textDocument/outline`                      |
|     Document Symbols | `getDocumentSymbols`         | `textDocument/symbols`                      |
|    Workspace Symbols | `getWorkspaceSymbols`        | `workspace/symbols`                         |
|     Go-to definition | `getDefinition`              | `textDocument/definition`                   |
| Workspace Definition | `getWorkspaceDefinition`     | `workspace/definition`                      |
|          File Events | Not supported yet            | `didOpen/didClose/didSave/didChange` events |
